Create Blog Post “getting-started-with-the-bulk-api” (#2311)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/getting-started-with-the-bulk-api.md

---
title: Getting Started with the Campaign Manager API & UI
description: Create outreach campaigns at a large scale using any Vonage
  Communication API such as Messages, Voice, and AI Studio.
author: michael-crump
published: true
published_at: 2022-12-05T19:23:10.732Z
updated_at: 2022-12-05T19:23:10.825Z
category: tutorial
tags:
  - messages
  - bulk
  - campaign
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---
## Introduction

> Today, we are pleased to announce a new tool called Campaign Manager API & UI that makes it easy to create outreach campaigns at a large scale using any Vonage Communication API, such as Messages, Voice, and AI Studio. This API allows you to schedule and send personalized messages to different large-scale contact groups and offers the ability to receive and act on customer responses in a friendly GUI (Graphical User Interface). Campaign Manager API & UI enters Beta today, and you can try it now from your [Vonage Developer Portal](https://developer.vonage.com/).

Reviewer: They did want a mention that this was "new" or "current" news. So I'll leave Today in.

* **Action**: An Action is typically used to send an SMS, WhatsApp Message, or make a phone call. Actions can also be used as reactions to trigger an API call upon receiving a response from the target user.
* **Job**: A Job iterates through the list and applies a predefined set of Actions to each element.
* **Runs**: The Runs show all of the Jobs that have run, are running, or are scheduled to run, and find out how your campaigns are currently performing.

## Building our Lists

We'll begin by creating a new List. Go ahead and click on **Lists** under **Configuration**, and you'll see the following screen:

![Lists](/content/blog/getting-started-with-the-campaign-manager-api-ui/lists.png "lists.png")

Press **Create a new List**, and you'll be prompted to enter a **Name**, **Description**, and **Tags** for your list. We'll use **My Lists** for the **Name**, and for the **Description**, we'll use **This is my lists** and press **Next**.

> We could have added **Tags** to find this list, which is typically helpful when managing a large number of Lists.

> Next, it asks for a **Data Source**. You can select either **Manual** or **Salesforce**. If you select **Manual**, you'll need to provide a CSV file, or if you select **Salesforce**, you'll be asked to provide your **Integration ID** and an option to provide the **Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL)**. For the sake of this demo, we'll use a CSV File that looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It asks for a **Data Source**. You can select either **Manual** or **Salesforce**. If you select **Manual**, you'll need to provide a CSV file, or if you select **Salesforce**, you'll be asked to provide your Integration ID** and an option to provide the **Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL)**. For this demo, we'll use a CSV File that looks like this:
```

> Next, it asks for a **Data Source**. You can select either **Manual** or **Salesforce**. If you select **Manual**, you'll need to provide a CSV file, or if you select **Salesforce**, you'll be asked to provide your **Integration ID** and an option to provide the **Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL)**. For the sake of this demo, we'll use a CSV File that looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, it asks for a **Data Source**. You can select either **Manual** or **Salesforce**. If you select **Manual**, you'll need to provide a CSV file. If you select **Salesforce**, you'll be asked to provide your **Integration ID** and **Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL)**. For the sake of this demo, we'll use a CSV File that looks like the following:
```

```text
firstName,lastName,Number,Location
Michael,Crump,14259999999,USA
Diana,Pham,14259999998,USA
Daniela,Facchinetti,14259999997,UK
Ben,Aronov,14259999996,Israel
```

> Select **Data Source** and change it to **Manual**. Copy the text listed above and save it as a CSV file. Drag and drop the CSV file to the designer, and now you'll assign a **Label name** with the label defined in the CSV File. For example, mine looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select **Data Source** and change it to **Manual**. Copy the text listed above and save it as a CSV file. Drag and drop the CSV file to the designer. Next, you'll assign a **Label name** with the label defined in the CSV File. For example, mine looks like the following:
```

![Map Labels to names defined in the CSV](/content/blog/getting-started-with-the-campaign-manager-api-ui/csvlabels.png "csvlabels.png")

Finally, press the **Save** button. 

> You'll now have a **Lists** which defines whom to send the campaign to, along with the number of entries and when it was last modified. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now have a **Lists** which defines whom to send the campaign to, the number of entries, and when it was last modified. 
```

Reviewer 2: Should that be a singular **List** or plural **Lists**?

Reviewer: They call is Lists

![Configured List](/content/blog/getting-started-with-the-campaign-manager-api-ui/configuredlist.png "configuredlist.png")

## Creating a new Action

> Now that we have a **List**, we need to perform an action to send messages to the group using one of our communications APIs. Again, this could be via SMS, MMS, Facebook Messenger, Viber, WhatsApp, or voice. Select the **Actions** under **Configurations** and press **Create a new Action**. You'll see several pre-configured Actions that you can use or start from scratch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have a **List**, we need to perform an action to send messages to the group using one of our communication APIs. Again, this could be via SMS, MMS, Facebook Messenger, Viber, WhatsApp, or voice. Select the **Actions** under **Configurations** and press **Create a new Action**. You'll see several pre-configured Actions that you can use or start from scratch.
```

> Now that we have a **List**, we need to perform an action to send messages to the group using one of our communications APIs. Again, this could be via SMS, MMS, Facebook Messenger, Viber, WhatsApp, or voice. Select the **Actions** under **Configurations** and press **Create a new Action**. You'll see several pre-configured Actions that you can use or start from scratch.

Reviewer: I will leave out the word `done` to keep the sentence brief. But thank you!

![Pre-configured actions](/content/blog/getting-started-with-the-campaign-manager-api-ui/preconfigured-actions.png "preconfigured-actions.png")

> This is where we can start seeing the power of **Campaign Manager API & UI**. If we select the **SMS** pre-configured Action, it will automatically populate the fields, such as the **parameters** we'd like to use in the request, along with the **Command** used for the API call and **Response** settings that come back after a successful or unsuccessful call. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is where we can start seeing the power of **Bulk API**. Suppose we select the **SMS** pre-configured Action. In that case, it will automatically populate the fields, such as the **parameters** we'd like to use in the request, along with the **Command** used for the API call and **Response** settings that come back after a successful or unsuccessful call. 
```

Reviewer: The suggested changes has Bulk API. Can you change that back to Campaign Manager and I'll accept.

We'll provide the following information to this form:

* Name: US Customers
* Description: This message will go out to US-based customers.
* Condition: item.Location == "USA"
* Recipient: {{item.Number}}
* Template Message: Hello {{firstName}}, please visit vonage.com/usa to get your discount code. 

Note the information that we provided for the **Condition**. This matches the **Location** column from the CSV file to match only entries containing **USA**. Which, in this case, is only two entries. The **Recipient** field also uses the same data source and retrieves the **Number** provided in the CSV File. Finally, we provide a **Template Message**, that uses the **FirstName** of the customer to send location-specific instructions. 

The only remaining thing to do is specify which **Action** we want to use for that **Segment**. I'll click on the drop-down and select **vg-send-sms**, which we defined earlier, and by default, it will automatically populate the **Action parameters** as shown below. 

![configured actions](/content/blog/getting-started-with-the-campaign-manager-api-ui/configure-actions.png "configure-actions.png")

> Go ahead and press **Next**, and you'll reach the final step in creating a new job. Here you'll be allowed to define how you'll handle the responses from each of your chosen segments. This is optional, and for now, we'll press **Save** to continue. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go ahead and press **Next**, and you'll reach the final step in creating a new job. Here you'll be allowed to define how you'll handle the responses from each of your chosen segments. This is optional; for now, we'll press **Save** to continue. 
```

Reviewer: I think the regular comma makes this easier to read. But I appreciate your suggestion.

Keep in mind that if we wanted to create another **Segment** that targeted individuals living in the **UK**, we could press the **Create a Segment** button again and modify our **Condition** to match that location, along with a customized **Template Message** for that locale. We could also specify an **Action** that uses something besides the SMS API. For example, we could use Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, etc. 

## Scheduling a Run

The final step in creating a campaign is to create a **Run**. This is a scheduled job that will run at the interval specified. Select the **Runs** under **Configurations** and press **Schedule a Run**. 

You'll be prompted to enter your list's **Name**, **Description**, and **Job**. We'll use **My Run** for the **Name**, and for the **Description**, we'll use **This is my new Run**. We'll also need to select a **Job**, so I'll select **My New Job** from the dropdown.

> Next, we need to **Schedule** when the **Run** will take place. Please note that the displayed start and end dates are in UTC. Once complete, press **Schedule** as shown below. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we need to **Schedule** when the **Run** will occur. Please note that the displayed start and end dates are in UTC. Once complete, press **Schedule** as shown below. 
```
